---
layout: post
title:  "A Venture Into the World of LinkedIn Botting"
date:   2018-12-03 01:39:44 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---
For those who don't know me, I am currently a computer science major at The University of Texas at Austin. Now, the most relevant part of that previous sentence in my life is **computer science major**. Essentially, that means I want to get become a *software engineer* in the next few years. Being a full-time student, I don't have the time or the skills necessary in order to become a full-time software engineer - yet. However, also being the aspiring computer programmer/developer/code-monkey that I am, I want to get my hands dirty and prove myself worthy of the elusive title of *software engineer* so I have to start from the bottom rung - software engineering *intern*. 

In the present day, I am a sophomore meaning I have survive my freshman year and now I am onto the awkward middle year that everyone wants to forget. For the past year and a half, I have been attending every career fair imaginable and talking to as many recruiters as I could lay my eyes. Freshman year was brutal since most companies don't even bat at eye at you until you are junior but I was determined to get my name out there so I moved onto the world of online job applications. It wasn't long until I discovered how much more brutal applying online can be. 

#### The Trouble With Online Job Applications
So applying online is whole animal in its own right. During a career fair, you and the recruiter have a face-to-face interaction. There is a brief window of time where the recruiter is able to see you as a human being and not just a single sheet of paper. Unfortunately, that's not how it works online. There is no face-to-face conversation. It's you, your computer, and your resume. After you jump through the many hoops of failed auto-fill labels, broken scroll boxes, and forgotten missing fields, you are then left at the mercy of an algorithm that picks apart your resume for the right number of key words to deem you worthy of a follow-up technical interview. I understand why companies have to do this. They want the best the candidates and candidates want the best pay so a plethora of people apply in the hopes that they too, can become a software engineer. This means whenever you apply online, it's quite literally you against a computer against the rest of the world.

I am not capable of changing this system nor do I have a more viable solution for this obstacle so if I want a job, I am going to have to play the game. After doing some research, I discovered that I wasn't alone. In fact, only 2% of online job applicants get to the interviews and of course, only a smaller portion of that segment goes on to receive an offer. This correlates nearly with my experience as freshman having approximately 250 completed applications and only 8 interviews. What this means, is that if I want to get more than 8 interviews per year, I am going to have to continually apply to over 250 jobs every year.

As you can see, in 4 years, I would have to completed 1000 applications to get 32 interviews.

If each application takes an average of 20 minutes, thats 20000 minutes, making 333 hours, turning into roughly 14 days of pure online job application submissions. This doesn't factor in time spent at career fairs walking till your feet hurt or the waiting time for a response.

#### A Side Story
I will start by saying that I pride myself on being pretty clever. (You can skip this part of the post because its really a tangent from the rest of the post but I am including it because its memorable for me and reminds me of a time I was clever). When I was younger, I was put through the Kumon after school program designed to help accelerate young minds. The program works by providing kids with daily homeworks and tutoring-session work packets that must be completed without any incorrect answers. Packets with incorrect answers must be corrected in order to receive the next packet. The tutoring-sessions were held twice a week in a dedicated facility and as a kid with strict parents, I could only go home once I completed the packet for that day's tutoring-session. As the packets got more complex, I was spending more and more time at the facility since it was taking me longer to complete the packets. If I wanted to go home earlier, I was going to have to figure out a way to complete the packets faster. Consequently because of the growing complexity of the packets, I was getting more and more questions wrong in the homework-packets. I discovered that if I missed too many questions in the homework packets, I wouldn't get a tutoring-session packet because I had so many answers to correct from the homework questions. Knowing this, I would purposely miss questions, hiding the correct answer in plain-sight via a cipher I designed. Sometimes I would flip a fraction upside down or change a minus to a plus sign. I was then able to go home whenever I wanted by simply forcing the tutors to give me the "incorrect" homework packets to correct, only to correct the packets within 10 minutes. It wasn't long after that when I was finally taken out of the program. Regretfully now that I am older, I wished I had Kumon more seriously but its all in the past now.


#### What 